Move from Sinks to Inputs and Outputs (#65)
AMWA-TV/nmos-sink-metadata-processing: docs/Behaviour - Server Side.md

# API

The Sink Metadata Processing API provides a mechanism to change the settings associated with logical Inputs, Sources, Flows and Senders. Another use case is obtaining information about Outputs associated with Receivers.

## Senders

> The `/outputs` endpoint returns a list of IDs corresponding to Inputs associated to the specific Sender. If this list changes then the associated [IS-04][IS-04] Sender MUST update its version (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resource).

Reviewer: The `/outputs` endpoint => The `/inputs` endpoint

Author: ```suggestion
The `/inputs` endpoint returns a list of IDs corresponding to Inputs associated to the specific Sender. If this list changes then the associated [IS-04][IS-04] Sender MUST update its version (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resource).
```

> The `/media-profiles` endpoint allows the client to pass an array of [Media Profiles](Overview.md#media-profile) to a Sender with subsequent passing to Inputs. The Inputs let the Source and Flow to choose exactly which format from the set they will use. A client can pass a single Media Profile to specify the exact format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `/media-profiles` endpoint allows the client to pass an array of [Media Profiles](Overview.md#media-profile) to a Sender. The sender can then make these restrictions visible to its associated Inputs. The Inputs let the Source and Flow to choose exactly which format from the set they will use. A client can pass a single Media Profile to specify the exact format.
```

### Request Methods

- A `GET` request returns the last successfully applied Media Profiles array.

> - A `PUT` request MUST be validated and if the Sender supports the proposed Media Profile, the Inputs are started to be reconfigured which causes updating of the corresponding Flow, Source, and/or Sender properties. If successful, the operation MUST return the accepted Media Profiles array, otherwise an error MUST be returned and nothing changed.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure we have any properties which can be observed changing on Inputs. I would take them out and just mentioned that if the Sender supports the proposed Media Profiles, the corresponding Flow, Slow and/or Sender properties might be updated.

Author: If we say Input owns EDID, then it might be updated as well.

Reviewer: What about this?

- A `PUT` request MUST be validated and if the Sender supports the proposed Media Profiles, the associated Inputs may be reconfigured to adhere to the Media Profiles constraints, which may eventually cause the update of the corresponding Flows, Sources, and Sender. If successful, the operation MUST return the accepted Media Profiles array, otherwise an error MUST be returned and nothing changed.

Author: ```suggestion
- A `PUT` request MUST be validated and if the Sender supports the proposed Media Profiles, the associated Inputs may be reconfigured to adhere to the Media Profiles constraints, which may eventually cause the update of the corresponding Flows, Sources, and Sender. If successful, the operation MUST return the accepted Media Profiles array, otherwise an error MUST be returned and nothing changed.
```

When the `/media-profiles` structure changes as a consequence of PUT or DELETE (request is validated and accepted by the API server), then the associated [IS-04][IS-04] Sender MUST have its version updated (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resource).

### Integration with IS-04

If the new `/media-profiles` structure causes the Sender or underlying Flow, Source or Inputs to change, then their versions MUST be updated (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resources).

## Receivers

The `/outputs` endpoint returns a list of IDs corresponding to Outputs associated to the specific Receiver. If this list changes then the underlying [IS-04][IS-04] Receiver MUST update its version (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resource).

If Receiver becomes unable to handle Flow, it is REQUIRED to take the following actions:
- MUST set the [IS-05][IS-05] `/active`'s `master_enable` property to `false`.
- MUST update the [IS-04][IS-04] `subscription`'s `active` property to `false` (regardless of unicast or multicast).

## Inputs

> The `/edid` endpoint allows a client to download the effective EDID if it exists. If the EDID information for the Input changes and it is associated with any Senders, then all of the Senders in question MUST update their versions (in registered mode this MUST update the registered resources).

Reviewer: Why requiring Sender version change if EDID changes? If the EDID cause a change of Source or Flow the Sender will be updated, if the EDID changes without causing a change in Source or Flow then why update the version of the Sender? On the Input side the EDID changes through IS-11 so the controller knows about it.

Author: Controller knows about Input change when it PUTs EDID to this Input. If Controller PUTs Media Profiles to a Sender, the Input's EDID may or not change, and Sender's version update indicates it even if Source and Flow stays the same. If the Input is shared between two Senders, it helps Controller to keep them up-to-date.

Another reason is the multiple NMOS APIs clients case.

Reviewer: Isn't it that PUT media_profile will bump by itself the version of the Sender?

Author: Right, it is. I assume, providing effective EDID binary to HDMI source is not immediate. Controller PUTs Media Profiles, the Sender responds and updates own version. Then the HDMI input sets HPD low, waits few hundreds of msecs, sets HPD high, the HDMI source reads the fresh effective EDID binary, the Input updates its effective EDID and updates own version and version of the Sender.

If effective EDID models not the last EDID read by HDMI source but the last EDID generated by Sender, we may treat Media Profiles change and effective EDID change as immediate. But I think bumping version of the Sender after effective EDID update is still useful for Inputs associated with multiple Senders and NMOS APIs clients other than the Controller.

Reviewer: I don't think we want/need to model the HPD to EDID read by the source part of the system ... Eventually the source will get the effective EDID and behave accordingly, possibly changing the signal it transmits ... I would not want to bump the version of a Sender to indicate that after HPD a source has read the effective EDID ...

Author: It makes sense not to link Input behaviour with physical source. Does it make sense to keep bumping version of the Sender after effective EDID update for Inputs with multiple Senders and multiple NMOS clients or there are better alternatives?

Author: 2020/10/25 activity group call: PUT for /media-profiles and /edid doesn't wait for passing EDID binary to a physical source; /edid change bumps Sender version to let all the Senders associated with the Input be tracked by Controller. Marked as resolved.
